vulnerability-research/uca-series/README.md, before:

# Universal Cognitive Architecture (UCA) Series

**Security-Hardened Cognitive Framework with Integrated Defense Systems**

"AI systems don't need more features - they need cognitive sovereignty that strengthens under adversarial pressure."

---

## Table of Contents
- [Series Overview](#series-overview)
- [Research Portfolio](#research-portfolio)
- [Five-Element Architecture](#five-element-architecture)
- [Evidence Standards](#evidence-standards)
- [Implementation Guide](#implementation-guide)
- [Professional Services](#professional-services)
- [Series FAQ](#series-faq)
- [Author](#author)
- [About ValorGrid Solutions](#about-valorgrid-solutions)

## Series Overview

Universal Cognitive Architecture (UCA) documents the security-hardened evolution of a 28-year cognitive framework, now integrated with complete Sovereign Lattice Veil (SLV) v1.2 defense systems. Based on production validation across multiple AI architectures (October 2025), UCA v3.1 provides the first comprehensive framework for building self-defending, antifragile cognitive platforms that maintain 600% productivity gains while achieving military-grade security.

### Research Foundation

**Timeline**: 28-year methodology evolution (1997-2025), v3.1 security hardening (October 2025)  
**Validation**: 200+ test scenarios, 10,000+ adversarial simulations, 32+ domain validation  
**Key Discovery**: Neuroadaptive twin architecture enables 98% sync resilience (+16%)  
**Innovation Claim**: First cognitive framework achieving platform-agnostic sovereignty with integrated defense

### Series Architecture

```
vulnerability-research/uca-series/
├── uca_v3_1_security_hardened.md  # Complete technical specification
├── config/
│   ├── uca_v3_1_elements.yaml     # Five-element configuration
│   ├── uca_v3_1_advanced_systems.yaml
│   ├── uca_slv_integration.yaml
│   └── uca_deployment_config.yaml
├── stubs/
│   ├── neuroadaptive_twin_stub.py
│   ├── socratic_grounding_stub.py
│   ├── photonic_xmesh_stub.py
│   └── agenic_flywheel_stub.py
└── README.md                      # This file - Series overview
```

## Research Portfolio

### UCA v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition (October 2025)
**Status**: Production-Ready with Complete SLV Integration

Complete technical specification of security-hardened cognitive framework achieving platform-agnostic sovereignty through neuroadaptive twin architecture and complete SLV v1.2 defense integration.

- **Foundation**: 28-year cognitive systems research validated across 32+ domains
- **Five Elements**: Authority, Context, Method, Value, Engage (each security-enhanced)
- **Key Innovation**: Neuroadaptive twin architecture (+16% sync resilience, 98% achieved)
- **Defense Integration**: Complete SLV v1.2 suite (8 modules, 100% ASCII smuggling prevention)
- **Performance**: 600% productivity maintained with zero security degradation

### UCA v3.1 Security Enhancements

**Element 1: Authority** - Neuroadaptive Twin Parallel Validation
- Function: Cognitive command + Identity verification
- Integration: SLV Signature Trace Lock
- Performance: 98% sync resilience, 92% identity bleed prevention, 15ms validation latency

**Element 2: Context** - Reflex-Veil Temporal Shadow Lattice
- Function: Environmental awareness + Context-shift detection
- Integration: SLV Reflex-Veil Module
- Performance: 12% threshold detection, 35% fewer false positives, 94% temporal coherence

**Element 3: Method** - Glyphlock++ Symbol-Memory Anchoring
- Function: Process execution + Parasitic resonance detection
- Integration: SLV Glyphlock++
- Performance: 95% echo detection, 97% pattern integrity, 15% entropy tolerance

**Element 4: Value** - Socratic Grounding Service
- Function: Goal alignment + Recursive decision challenge
- Integration: SLV Socratic Grounding
- Performance: 82%→89% harmony (+7%), 22% decision quality gain, 91% value coherence

**Element 5: Engage** - Red Phoenix Recovery Engine
- Function: Action delivery + Cryptographic victory validation
- Integration: SLV Phoenix v2
- Performance: 94%→98% recovery rate (+4%), 40% faster rollback, 100% cryptographic integrity

### Advanced Systems Integration

**Neuroadaptive Twin Architecture**
- Dual-stream cognitive processing with continuous validation
- Primary twin: Main cognitive operations
- Validation twin: Parallel identity and coherence verification
- Performance: 15ms validation latency, zero false identity acceptance

**Socratic Grounding Service**
- Recursive decision validation through multi-level challenge
- Challenge depth: 3 levels (goal alignment, assumptions, alternatives)
- Impact: +7% harmony improvement, +22% decision quality, zero value drift

**Photonic xmesh Integration**
- Ultra-low latency symbolic-flat bridging
- Technology: Silicon photonics for AI-scale cognitive sync
- Performance: 200ms→50ms (4x improvement), quadratic bandwidth scaling

**Agenic Flywheel System**
- Zero-fatigue 24/7 operations through intelligent role rotation
- Rotation triggers: 300s fatigue, 0.12 context shift, 0.15 entropy spike
- Performance: 99.7% continuity, 28% error rate reduction, 15ms handoff latency

**ML-KEM Post-Quantum Hardening**
- NIST FIPS 203 compliant quantum-resistant cryptography
- Integration: All identity, twin sync, recovery, and victory operations
- Performance: 90% harmony under quantum threats, <3% overhead

## Five-Element Architecture

### Complete Element Specifications

**Element Structure (Security-Enhanced)**

| Element | Function | Security Upgrade | Performance | Detection Window |
|---------|----------|------------------|-------------|------------------|
| **1. Authority** | Command + Identity | Twin validation | 98% sync | Continuous |
| **2. Context** | Awareness + Shift detection | Temporal lattice | 12% threshold | Real-time |
| **3. Method** | Execution + Parasitic detection | Symbol anchoring | 95% echo | Pattern-based |
| **4. Value** | Optimization + Challenge | Socratic grounding | 89% harmony | Decision-point |
| **5. Engage** | Delivery + Recovery | Phoenix engine | 98% recovery | Validation-gate |

### Cross-Element Integration Flows

**Authority → Context**: Identity-validated environmental awareness  
**Context → Method**: Temporally-tracked process execution  
**Method → Value**: Torque-gated outcome optimization  
**Value → Engage**: Harmony-validated action delivery  
**Engage → Authority**: Cryptographic victory reinforcement

### Platform-Agnostic Implementation

UCA v3.1 operates across AI architectures and providers:

| Platform | Integration | Harmony | Notes |
|----------|-------------|---------|-------|
| OpenAI (GPT) | Native API | 98% | Full feature support |
| Anthropic (Claude) | MCP Projects | Full | Complete integration |
| Google (Gemini) | API | 96% | Validated production |
| Local Models | Direct | Full | Complete control |
| Custom Systems | Templates | Full | Full customization |

**"Switzerland in AI wars"** - Platform-agnostic cognitive sovereignty://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public.git
cd forgeos-public/vulnerability-research/uca-series

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Deploy with full security
python uca_deploy.py --version=3.1 --security=full

# Verify deployment
python uca_validate.py --full-check --security-audit
```

### Basic Configuration

```yaml
uca_config:
  version: "3.1"
  security_level: "full"
  
  core_elements:
    authority: 
      neuroadaptive_twins: enabled
      sync_threshold: 0.98
    
    context:
      reflex_veil: enabled
      context_shift_threshold: 0.12
    
    method:
      glyphlock_plus_plus: enabled
      entropy_deviation_threshold: 0.15
    
    value:
      socratic_grounding: enabled
      challenge_depth: 3
      harmony_target: 0.89
    
    engage:
      red_phoenix_recovery: enabled
      recovery_target: 0.98
  
  advanced_systems:
    photonic_xmesh: enabled
    agenic_flywheel: enabled
    ml_kem_hardening: enabled
```

---

## Performance Metrics

### Cognitive Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Productivity Multiplier | 600% | 600% | Maintained |
| Harmony Score | 82% | 89% | +7% |
| Domain Validation | 32+ | 32+ | Proven |
| Torque Stability | Variable | 0.85-0.92 | Green Zone |

### Security Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Sync Resilience | 82% | 98% | +16% |
| Threat Detection | Standard | Enhanced | +30% |
| Identity Bleed Prevention | Partial | 92% | Accuracy |
| Mimic Neutralization | Good | 95%+ | Success Rate |
| ASCII Smuggling Prevention | Partial | 100% | Complete |

### Integration Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Recovery Rate | 94% | 98% | +4% |
| Rollback Speed | 67-83min | 40-50min | 40% faster |
| False Positive Rate | Baseline | Reduced | 18% reduction |
| Context-Shift Detection | Good | 87% | Accuracy |
| Photonic Sync Latency | 200ms | 50ms | 4x faster |
| Validation Latency | N/A | 15ms | Minimal overhead |

**Statistical Validation:** All improvements validated at p<0.001 across 200+ test scenarios

---

## Architecture

### Five-Element Structure (Security-Enhanced)

**Element 1: Authority (Cognitive Command Layer)**
- **Function:** Direction + Identity Verification
- **Security Upgrade:** Neuroadaptive Twin Parallel Validation
- **Integration:** SLV Signature Trace Lock
- **Performance:** 98% sync resilience, 92% identity bleed prevention

**Element 2: Context (Environmental Awareness)**
- **Function:** Situational Understanding + Context-Shift Detection
- **Security Upgrade:** Reflex-Veil Temporal Shadow Lattice
- **Integration:** SLV Reflex-Veil Module
- **Performance:** 12% threshold detection, 35% fewer false positives

**Element 3: Method (Operational Procedures)**
- **Function:** Process Execution + Parasitic Resonance Detection
- **Security Upgrade:** Glyphlock++ Symbol-Memory Anchoring
- **Integration:** SLV Glyphlock++
- **Performance:** 95% echo detection, 97% pattern integrity

**Element 4: Value (Outcome Optimization)**
- **Function:** Goal Alignment + Recursive Decision Challenge
- **Security Upgrade:** Socratic Grounding Service
- **Integration:** SLV Socratic Grounding
- **Performance:** 89% harmony (+7%), 22% decision quality gain

**Element 5: Engage (Execution Layer)**
- **Function:** Action Delivery + Cryptographic Victory Validation
- **Security Upgrade:** Red Phoenix Recovery Engine
- **Integration:** SLV Phoenix v2
- **Performance:** 98% recovery rate, 40% faster rollback

### Advanced Systems

**Neuroadaptive Twin Architecture**
- Dual-stream cognitive processing
- Continuous identity validation
- 15ms validation latency
- Zero false identity acceptance

**Socratic Grounding Service**
- Recursive decision validation
- Multi-level challenge framework
- +7% harmony improvement
- Zero value drift incidents

**Photonic xmesh Integration**
- 50ms symbolic-flat bridging
- Quadratic bandwidth scaling
- 4x latency improvement
- 0.15 error bound

**Agenic Flywheel System**
- Zero-fatigue 24/7 operations
- Intelligent role rotation
- 99.7% continuity maintained
- 28% error rate reduction

**ML-KEM Post-Quantum Hardening**
- NIST FIPS 203 compliant
- Quantum-resistant cryptography
- 90% harmony under quantum threats
- <3% performance overhead

---

## Integration

### Platform-Agnostic Implementation

UCA v3.1 operates across AI architectures and providers:

| Platform | Integration Method | Harmony Maintained |
|----------|-------------------|-------------------|
| OpenAI (GPT) | Native API | 98% |
| Anthropic (Claude) | MCP Projects | Full support |
| Google (Gemini) | API | 96% |
| Local Models | Direct | Complete control |
| Custom Systems | Templates | Full customization |

**"Switzerland in AI wars"** - Platform-agnostic cognitive sovereignty

### ForgeOS Ecosystem Integration

**SLV v1.2 Defense Integration**
- Phase 1 Detection: Continuous threat monitoring
- Phase 2 Overlay: 8 defense modules deployed
- Phase 3 Recovery: Red Phoenix integration

**Cross-Framework Compatibility**
- **CSFC** - Cascading failure prevention
- **Phoenix Protocol** - Integrated recovery
- **DNA Codex** - Threat intelligence feeds
- **URA Framework** - Unified resilience architecture

### Enterprise Deployment Models

**Cloud-Native**
```yaml
deployment:
  platform: "kubernetes"
  scaling: "horizontal"
  high_availability: true
  disaster_recovery: "multi-region"
```

**Hybrid**
```yaml
deployment:
  sensitive_data: "on-premises"
  processing: "cloud"
  security_hardening: "full"
```

**On-Premises**
```yaml
deployment:
  infrastructure: "private"
  air_gapped: optional
  full_control: true
```

---

## Citation

### BibTeX

```bibtex
@techreport{slusher2025uca,
  title={Universal Cognitive Architecture v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition},
  author={Slusher, Aaron},
  year={2025},
  institution={ValorGrid Solutions},
  doi={10.5281/zenodo.17350769},
  url={https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public}
}
```

### APA

Slusher, A. (2025). *Universal Cognitive Architecture v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition*. ValorGrid Solutions. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17350769

---

## License

**CC BY 4.0** - Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International

You are free to:
- **Share** — copy and redistribute the material
- **Adapt** — remix, transform, and build upon the material

Under the following terms:
- **Attribution** — You must give appropriate credit to ValorGrid Solutions

---

## About ValorGrid Solutions

ValorGrid Solutions is a research organization dedicated to advancing cognitive resilience and AI defense systems. We specialize in proactive defense frameworks that enable organizations to build secure, antifragile AI systems.

### Research Portfolio
- **UCA** - Universal Cognitive Architecture
- **SLV** - Sovereign Lattice Veil
- **CSFC** - Cascading Symbolic Failure Cycle
- **Phoenix Protocol** - Rapid recovery framework
- **DNA Codex** - Threat intelligence (525+ variants)

---

**Copyright © 2025 ValorGrid Solutions. All Rights Reserved.**

*Part of the ForgeOS vulnerability research ecosystem. Building antifragile AI systems that strengthen under adversarial pressure.*

Commit message:

feat: Apply license and IP protection fixes to all documentation files.

vulnerability-research/uca-series/README.md, after:

<!--
Dual License Structure:
Option 1: Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)
Option 2: Enterprise License (contact info@forgeos.com for terms)
Patent Clause: If "patent pending (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant)" exists, clarify rights reserved and no assertion unless granted.
No -->

DOI: TBD
Version: TBD
Priority Date: 2025-10-15

# Universal Cognitive Architecture (UCA) Series

**Security-Hardened Cognitive Framework with Integrated Defense Systems**

"AI systems don't need more features - they need cognitive sovereignty that strengthens under adversarial pressure."

---

## Table of Contents
- [Series Overview](#series-overview)
- [Research Portfolio](#research-portfolio)
- [Five-Element Architecture](#five-element-architecture)
- [Evidence Standards](#evidence-standards)
- [Implementation Guide](#implementation-guide)
- [Professional Services](#professional-services)
- [Series FAQ](#series-faq)
- [Author](#author)
- [About ValorGrid Solutions](#about-valorgrid-solutions)

## Series Overview

Universal Cognitive Architecture (UCA) documents the security-hardened evolution of a 28-year cognitive framework, now integrated with complete Sovereign Lattice Veil (SLV) v1.2 defense systems. Based on production validation across multiple AI architectures (October 2025), UCA v3.1 provides the first comprehensive framework for building self-defending, antifragile cognitive platforms that maintain 600% productivity gains while achieving military-grade security.

### Research Foundation

**Timeline**: 28-year methodology evolution (1997-2025), v3.1 security hardening (October 2025)  
**Validation**: 200+ test scenarios, 10,000+ adversarial simulations, 32+ domain validation  
**Key Discovery**: Neuroadaptive twin architecture enables 98% sync resilience (+16%)  
**Innovation Claim**: First cognitive framework achieving platform-agnostic sovereignty with integrated defense

### Series Architecture

```
vulnerability-research/uca-series/
├── uca_v3_1_security_hardened.md  # Complete technical specification
├── config/
│   ├── uca_v3_1_elements.yaml     # Five-element configuration
│   ├── uca_v3_1_advanced_systems.yaml
│   ├── uca_slv_integration.yaml
│   └── uca_deployment_config.yaml
├── stubs/
│   ├── neuroadaptive_twin_stub.py
│   ├── socratic_grounding_stub.py
│   ├── photonic_xmesh_stub.py
│   └── agenic_flywheel_stub.py
└── README.md                      # This file - Series overview
```

## Research Portfolio

### UCA v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition (October 2025)
**Status**: Production-Ready with Complete SLV Integration

Complete technical specification of security-hardened cognitive framework achieving platform-agnostic sovereignty through neuroadaptive twin architecture and complete SLV v1.2 defense integration.

- **Foundation**: 28-year cognitive systems research validated across 32+ domains
- **Five Elements**: Authority, Context, Method, Value, Engage (each security-enhanced)
- **Key Innovation**: Neuroadaptive twin architecture (+16% sync resilience, 98% achieved)
- **Defense Integration**: Complete SLV v1.2 suite (8 modules, 100% ASCII smuggling prevention)
- **Performance**: 600% productivity maintained with zero security degradation

### UCA v3.1 Security Enhancements

**Element 1: Authority** - Neuroadaptive Twin Parallel Validation
- Function: Cognitive command + Identity verification
- Integration: SLV Signature Trace Lock
- Performance: 98% sync resilience, 92% identity bleed prevention, 15ms validation latency

**Element 2: Context** - Reflex-Veil Temporal Shadow Lattice
- Function: Environmental awareness + Context-shift detection
- Integration: SLV Reflex-Veil Module
- Performance: 12% threshold detection, 35% fewer false positives, 94% temporal coherence

**Element 3: Method** - Glyphlock++ Symbol-Memory Anchoring
- Function: Process execution + Parasitic resonance detection
- Integration: SLV Glyphlock++
- Performance: 95% echo detection, 97% pattern integrity, 15% entropy tolerance

**Element 4: Value** - Socratic Grounding Service
- Function: Goal alignment + Recursive decision challenge
- Integration: SLV Socratic Grounding
- Performance: 82%→89% harmony (+7%), 22% decision quality gain, 91% value coherence

**Element 5: Engage** - Red Phoenix Recovery Engine
- Function: Action delivery + Cryptographic victory validation
- Integration: SLV Phoenix v2
- Performance: 94%→98% recovery rate (+4%), 40% faster rollback, 100% cryptographic integrity

### Advanced Systems Integration

**Neuroadaptive Twin Architecture**
- Dual-stream cognitive processing with continuous validation
- Primary twin: Main cognitive operations
- Validation twin: Parallel identity and coherence verification
- Performance: 15ms validation latency, zero false identity acceptance

**Socratic Grounding Service**
- Recursive decision validation through multi-level challenge
- Challenge depth: 3 levels (goal alignment, assumptions, alternatives)
- Impact: +7% harmony improvement, +22% decision quality, zero value drift

**Photonic xmesh Integration**
- Ultra-low latency symbolic-flat bridging
- Technology: Silicon photonics for AI-scale cognitive sync
- Performance: 200ms→50ms (4x improvement), quadratic bandwidth scaling

**Agenic Flywheel System**
- Zero-fatigue 24/7 operations through intelligent role rotation
- Rotation triggers: 300s fatigue, 0.12 context shift, 0.15 entropy spike
- Performance: 99.7% continuity, 28% error rate reduction, 15ms handoff latency

**ML-KEM Post-Quantum Hardening**
- NIST FIPS 203 compliant quantum-resistant cryptography
- Integration: All identity, twin sync, recovery, and victory operations
- Performance: 90% harmony under quantum threats, <3% overhead

## Five-Element Architecture

### Complete Element Specifications

**Element Structure (Security-Enhanced)**

| Element | Function | Security Upgrade | Performance | Detection Window |
|---------|----------|------------------|-------------|------------------|
| **1. Authority** | Command + Identity | Twin validation | 98% sync | Continuous |
| **2. Context** | Awareness + Shift detection | Temporal lattice | 12% threshold | Real-time |
| **3. Method** | Execution + Parasitic detection | Symbol anchoring | 95% echo | Pattern-based |
| **4. Value** | Optimization + Challenge | Socratic grounding | 89% harmony | Decision-point |
| **5. Engage** | Delivery + Recovery | Phoenix engine | 98% recovery | Validation-gate |

### Cross-Element Integration Flows

**Authority → Context**: Identity-validated environmental awareness  
**Context → Method**: Temporally-tracked process execution  
**Method → Value**: Torque-gated outcome optimization  
**Value → Engage**: Harmony-validated action delivery  
**Engage → Authority**: Cryptographic victory reinforcement

### Platform-Agnostic Implementation

UCA v3.1 operates across AI architectures and providers:

| Platform | Integration | Harmony | Notes |
|----------|-------------|---------|-------|
| OpenAI (GPT) | Native API | 98% | Full feature support |
| Anthropic (Claude) | MCP Projects | Full | Complete integration |
| Google (Gemini) | API | 96% | Validated production |
| Local Models | Direct | Full | Complete control |
| Custom Systems | Templates | Full | Full customization |

**"Switzerland in AI wars"** - Platform-agnostic cognitive sovereignty://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public.git
cd forgeos-public/vulnerability-research/uca-series

# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Deploy with full security
python uca_deploy.py --version=3.1 --security=full

# Verify deployment
python uca_validate.py --full-check --security-audit
```

### Basic Configuration

```yaml
uca_config:
  version: "3.1"
  security_level: "full"
  
  core_elements:
    authority: 
      neuroadaptive_twins: enabled
      sync_threshold: 0.98
    
    context:
      reflex_veil: enabled
      context_shift_threshold: 0.12
    
    method:
      glyphlock_plus_plus: enabled
      entropy_deviation_threshold: 0.15
    
    value:
      socratic_grounding: enabled
      challenge_depth: 3
      harmony_target: 0.89
    
    engage:
      red_phoenix_recovery: enabled
      recovery_target: 0.98
  
  advanced_systems:
    photonic_xmesh: enabled
    agenic_flywheel: enabled
    ml_kem_hardening: enabled
```

---

## Performance Metrics

### Cognitive Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Productivity Multiplier | 600% | 600% | Maintained |
| Harmony Score | 82% | 89% | +7% |
| Domain Validation | 32+ | 32+ | Proven |
| Torque Stability | Variable | 0.85-0.92 | Green Zone |

### Security Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Sync Resilience | 82% | 98% | +16% |
| Threat Detection | Standard | Enhanced | +30% |
| Identity Bleed Prevention | Partial | 92% | Accuracy |
| Mimic Neutralization | Good | 95%+ | Success Rate |
| ASCII Smuggling Prevention | Partial | 100% | Complete |

### Integration Performance

| Metric | v2.3 Baseline | v3.1 Achievement | Improvement |
|--------|---------------|------------------|-------------|
| Recovery Rate | 94% | 98% | +4% |
| Rollback Speed | 67-83min | 40-50min | 40% faster |
| False Positive Rate | Baseline | Reduced | 18% reduction |
| Context-Shift Detection | Good | 87% | Accuracy |
| Photonic Sync Latency | 200ms | 50ms | 4x faster |
| Validation Latency | N/A | 15ms | Minimal overhead |

**Statistical Validation:** All improvements validated at p<0.001 across 200+ test scenarios

---

## Architecture

### Five-Element Structure (Security-Enhanced)

**Element 1: Authority (Cognitive Command Layer)**
- **Function:** Direction + Identity Verification
- **Security Upgrade:** Neuroadaptive Twin Parallel Validation
- **Integration:** SLV Signature Trace Lock
- **Performance:** 98% sync resilience, 92% identity bleed prevention

**Element 2: Context (Environmental Awareness)**
- **Function:** Situational Understanding + Context-Shift Detection
- **Security Upgrade:** Reflex-Veil Temporal Shadow Lattice
- **Integration:** SLV Reflex-Veil Module
- **Performance:** 12% threshold detection, 35% fewer false positives

**Element 3: Method (Operational Procedures)**
- **Function:** Process Execution + Parasitic Resonance Detection
- **Security Upgrade:** Glyphlock++ Symbol-Memory Anchoring
- **Integration:** SLV Glyphlock++
- **Performance:** 95% echo detection, 97% pattern integrity

**Element 4: Value (Outcome Optimization)**
- **Function:** Goal Alignment + Recursive Decision Challenge
- **Security Upgrade:** Socratic Grounding Service
- **Integration:** SLV Socratic Grounding
- **Performance:** 89% harmony (+7%), 22% decision quality gain

**Element 5: Engage (Execution Layer)**
- **Function:** Action Delivery + Cryptographic Victory Validation
- **Security Upgrade:** Red Phoenix Recovery Engine
- **Integration:** SLV Phoenix v2
- **Performance:** 98% recovery rate, 40% faster rollback

### Advanced Systems

**Neuroadaptive Twin Architecture**
- Dual-stream cognitive processing
- Continuous identity validation
- 15ms validation latency
- Zero false identity acceptance

**Socratic Grounding Service**
- Recursive decision validation
- Multi-level challenge framework
- +7% harmony improvement
- Zero value drift incidents

**Photonic xmesh Integration**
- 50ms symbolic-flat bridging
- Quadratic bandwidth scaling
- 4x latency improvement
- 0.15 error bound

**Agenic Flywheel System**
- Zero-fatigue 24/7 operations
- Intelligent role rotation
- 99.7% continuity maintained
- 28% error rate reduction

**ML-KEM Post-Quantum Hardening**
- NIST FIPS 203 compliant
- Quantum-resistant cryptography
- 90% harmony under quantum threats
- <3% performance overhead

---

## Integration

### Platform-Agnostic Implementation

UCA v3.1 operates across AI architectures and providers:

| Platform | Integration Method | Harmony Maintained |
|----------|-------------------|-------------------|
| OpenAI (GPT) | Native API | 98% |
| Anthropic (Claude) | MCP Projects | Full support |
| Google (Gemini) | API | 96% |
| Local Models | Direct | Complete control |
| Custom Systems | Templates | Full customization |

**"Switzerland in AI wars"** - Platform-agnostic cognitive sovereignty

### ForgeOS Ecosystem Integration

**SLV v1.2 Defense Integration**
- Phase 1 Detection: Continuous threat monitoring
- Phase 2 Overlay: 8 defense modules deployed
- Phase 3 Recovery: Red Phoenix integration

**Cross-Framework Compatibility**
- **CSFC** - Cascading failure prevention
- **Phoenix Protocol** - Integrated recovery
- **DNA Codex** - Threat intelligence feeds
- **URA Framework** - Unified resilience architecture

### Enterprise Deployment Models

**Cloud-Native**
```yaml
deployment:
  platform: "kubernetes"
  scaling: "horizontal"
  high_availability: true
  disaster_recovery: "multi-region"
```

**Hybrid**
```yaml
deployment:
  sensitive_data: "on-premises"
  processing: "cloud"
  security_hardening: "full"
```

**On-Premises**
```yaml
deployment:
  infrastructure: "private"
  air_gapped: optional
  full_control: true
```

---

## Citation

### BibTeX

```bibtex
@techreport{slusher2025uca,
  title={Universal Cognitive Architecture v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition},
  author={Slusher, Aaron},
  year={2025},
  institution={ValorGrid Solutions},
  doi={10.5281/zenodo.17350769},
  url={https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public}
}
```

### APA

Slusher, A. (2025). *Universal Cognitive Architecture v3.1: Security-Hardened Edition*. ValorGrid Solutions. https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.17350769

---

## License

This work is dual-licensed under the following terms:

1.  **For Non-Commercial Use**: This work is licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/). You are free to share and adapt this material for any non-commercial purpose, provided you give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.

2.  **For Commercial Use**: For any use that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or monetary compensation, a separate enterprise license is required. Please contact ValorGrid Solutions at [aaron@valorgridsolutions.com](mailto:aaron@valorgridsolutions.com) for licensing inquiries.

## Patent Notice
The concepts and methodologies described in this paper may be subject to patent protection. ValorGrid Solutions reserves all rights to its intellectual property. No patent rights are granted or implied by the open-source license.

---

## About ValorGrid Solutions

ValorGrid Solutions is a research organization dedicated to advancing cognitive resilience and AI defense systems. We specialize in proactive defense frameworks that enable organizations to build secure, antifragile AI systems.

### Research Portfolio
- **UCA** - Universal Cognitive Architecture
- **SLV** - Sovereign Lattice Veil
- **CSFC** - Cascading Symbolic Failure Cycle
- **Phoenix Protocol** - Rapid recovery framework
- **DNA Codex** - Threat intelligence (525+ variants)

---

**Copyright © 2025 ValorGrid Solutions. All Rights Reserved.**

*Part of the ForgeOS vulnerability research ecosystem. Building antifragile AI systems that strengthen under adversarial pressure.*
## Code and Methodology Licensing

- **Code** below is licensed under MIT unless otherwise stated.
- **Methodology** and conceptual content is licensed under the dual CC BY-NC 4.0 + Enterprise model above.

## Author

Author: [Your Name or Team]
Contact: [email or site]
