vulnerability-research/slv-series/README.md, before:

<!--
Dual License Structure:
Option 1: Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)
Option 2: Enterprise License (contact info@forgeos.com for terms)
Patent Clause: If "patent pending (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant)" exists, clarify rights reserved and no assertion unless granted.
No -->

DOI: TBD
Version: TBD
Priority Date: 2025-10-15

# SLV Series

[![Research Status: Production](https://img.shields.io/badge/Research%20Status-Production-green.svg)]()
[![Detection Rate: 90%](https://img.shields.io/badge/Detection%20Rate-90%25-blue.svg)]()
[![URA Integration: Layer 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/URA%20Integration-Layer%203-green.svg)]()

**Dynamic defense grid for AI cognitive security with three-phase detection, overlay protection, and recovery validation.**

*"Platform-agnostic cognitive defense that strengthens through attack."*

---

## Table of Contents
- [Division Overview](#division-overview)
- [Research Portfolio](#research-portfolio)
- [Contents](#contents)
- [Evidence Standards](#evidence-standards)
- [Research Applications](#research-applications)
- [Implementation Standards](#implementation-standards)
- [Professional Services](#professional-services)
- [Research Standards](#research-standards)
- [Research Maintenance](#research-maintenance)
- [Research FAQ](#research-faq)
- [Research Applications by Sector](#research-applications-by-sector)
- [Classification System](#classification-system)
- [Author](#author)
- [About ValorGrid Solutions](#about-valorgrid-solutions)

## Division Overview

The SLV Series provides comprehensive three-phase defense architecture for AI cognitive security, addressing emergent threats including polymorphic desynchronization, authority bleeding, and symbolic fracture cascades. Drawing from 28 years of systems thinking and security architecture, SLV treats AI security as cognitive-layer defense requiring proactive threat taxonomy integration rather than reactive patching.

### Research Focus

- **Cognitive Defense Architecture**: Three-phase system for detection, protection, and recovery
- **Platform-Agnostic Implementation**: Validated across Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLMs
- **Threat Taxonomy Coverage**: 525+ documented variants with DNA Codex integration
- **Real-Time Validation**: Photonic XMesh coordination with <200ms detection latency

### Division Architecture

```
slv-series/
├── slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md    # Complete defense methodology
├── stubs/                               # Implementation demonstrations
│   └── slv_defense_stubs.py            # Phase 1-3 detection and protection simulations
├── configs/                             # Production configurations
│   └── slv_phases_config.yaml          # Three-phase deployment settings
├── gated/                               # Enterprise implementations
│   └── README.md                        # Professional service information
└── README.md                            # This file
```

## Research Portfolio

### Sovereign Lattice Veil v1.2 - **Production Ready**

Complete three-phase defense framework for AI cognitive security with validated cross-platform effectiveness and threat taxonomy coverage.

- **slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md**: Comprehensive methodology with defense module specifications
- **Validation**: 500+ threat scenarios with statistical significance (p<0.01)
- **Integration**: URA Layer 3 Photonic Defense with CSFC prevention and Phoenix Protocol recovery

### Defense Simulation Suite - **Operational**

Interactive Python-based simulation environment for detection, overlay, and recovery protocol validation.

- **slv_defense_stubs.py**: Complete detection and defense module simulation framework
- **Coverage**: Phase 1 (Detection) through Phase 3 (Recovery) with torque monitoring
- **Performance**: 100-scenario validation with automated threat classification

### Production Configuration - **Enterprise Ready**

Production-ready configuration templates for detection thresholds, defense modules, and recovery coordination.

- **slv_phases_config.yaml**: Complete three-phase configuration with module settings
- **Platform Support**: Claude, GPT, Gemini, custom LLM platform-specific optimizations
- **Integration**: URA, CSFC, Phoenix Protocol, DNA Codex cross-framework coordination

### Enterprise Implementations - **Professional Services**

Custom SLV implementations with threat-specific audits, multi-system coordination, and 
- **gated/README.md**: Enterprise service information and engagement pathways
- **Services**: Custom vulnerability audits, 24/7 threat monitoring, strategic consulting
- **ROI**: Validated through breach prevention and operational continuity

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

Python environment setup:
```bash
python -m venv slv-env
source slv-env/bin/activate  # On Windows: slv-env\Scripts\activate
pip install numpy matplotlib pandas pyyaml
```

Required: Python 3.8+, NumPy 1.26+, PyYAML 6.0+ (for configuration management)

### Interactive Simulation

**Detection and Alert System:**

Run detection simulation:
```bash
python stubs/slv_defense_stubs.py
```

Test specific threat scenario:
```python
from stubs.slv_defense_stubs import slv_detect

result = slv_detect(
    torque=0.25,
    velocity=0.15,
    system_state={
        'repetitive_cycles': 3,
        'desync_drift': 0.7,
        'authority_coherence': 0.5,
        'consensus_score': 0.65
    }
)

print(f"Threat Level: {result['threat_level']}")
print(f"IOCs Detected: {result['iocs_detected']}")
print(f"Recommendation: {result['recommendation']}")
```

**Defense Module Testing:**

```python
from stubs.slv_defense_stubs import test_defense_modules

results = test_defense_modules(
    threat_type='authority_bleeding',
    system_state={'torque': 0.25, 'velocity': 0.15}
)

print(f"Glyphlock++: {results['glyphlock_plus_plus']['status']}")
print(f"Reflex-Veil: {results['reflex_veil']['status']}")
print(f"Overall Defense: {results['overall_effectiveness']:.1%}")
```

**Production Deployment:**

Review configuration template:
```bash
cat configs/slv_phases_config.yaml
```

Customize for your environment and deploy with Docker/Kubernetes using your orchestration framework.

## Performance Metrics

| Component | Research Status | Validation | Integration | Status |
|-----------|----------------|------------|-------------|---------|
| **slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md** | Production | 500+ scenarios | URA Layer 3 | ✅ Published |
| **slv_defense_stubs.py** | Operational | Cross-platform | DNA Codex | ✅ Validated |
| **slv_phases_config.yaml** | Production | Enterprise tested | Multi-framework | ✅ Deployed |
| **Enterprise Services** | Professional | Real-world ROI | Custom audits | ✅ Available |

### Validated Defense Metrics

| Metric | Baseline | SLV v1.2 | Improvement |
|--------|----------|----------|-------------|
| **Detection Rate** | 60% | 90% | +30% |
| **False Positive Rate** | 8% | <2% | -75% |
| **Detection Latency** | 420ms | 185ms | -56% |
| **Recovery Time** | 42h | 1.2h | -97% |
| **Context Preservation** | 23% | 87% | +64% |
| **Re-failure Rate (30d)** | 18% | <2% | -89% |

**Statistical Significance**: All improvements significant at p<0.01 (two-tailed t-test, n=500+ scenarios)

## Classification System

**Cognitive Defense Protocols**: Three-phase detection, overlay, and recovery architectures
**Threat Taxonomy Integration**: DNA Codex v5.3.6 with 525+ documented variants
**Defense Module Suite**: Eight specialized modules for comprehensive threat coverage
**Platform-Agnostic Deployment**: Cross-LLM compatibility with unified API

## Evidence Standards

All SLV claims are supported by:
- **Controlled Testing**: Isolated environments with documented threat scenarios
- **Statistical Validation**: 500+ incidents with significance testing (p<0.01)
- **Cross-Platform Testing**: Validated across Claude 3.5, GPT-4, Gemini Pro, custom LLMs
- **Real-World Deployment**: Enterprise case studies with quantified threat prevention
- **Peer Review Standards**: Academic methodology with reproducible results

## Research Applications

### Enterprise Multi-Agent Systems
Production AI coordination with business continuity requirements, threat intelligence integration, and operational resilience mandates.

### Financial Services Platforms
Critical fraud detection and customer service AI requiring zero-breach tolerance and regulatory compliance.

### Research Environments
Academic and laboratory AI systems studying cognitive security, threat evolution, and defense mechanism effectiveness.

### Healthcare AI Systems
Diagnostic and operational AI requiring patient safety guarantees, data protection, and continuous operational availability.

## Implementation Standards

### Development Workflow
1. **Detection Integration**: Deploy torque monitoring using configuration templates
2. **Module Configuration**: Enable defense modules based on threat profile
3. **Recovery Testing**: Validate Phoenix Protocol integration in sandbox environments
4. **Production Deployment**: Implement with continuous monitoring and automated response

### Production Deployment
1. **Configuration**: Customize YAML templates for your infrastructure
2. **Integration**: Connect to URA Layer 3 and DNA Codex threat feeds
3. **Testing**: Validate detection and defense in controlled threat scenarios
4. **Monitoring**: Deploy continuous health validation and threat alerting

## Professional Services

ValorGrid Solutions provides comprehensive SLV implementation services:

- **Enterprise Implementation**: Custom defense grid deployment with multi-system coordination
- **Threat Audits**: Vulnerability assessment with threat-specific defense recommendations
- **Training Programs**: Team education on cognitive security and incident response
- **24/7 Threat Monitoring**: Continuous monitoring with 
## Research Standards

### Methodological Rigor
- Validated defense protocols with documented success rates across platforms
- Statistical significance testing with confidence intervals (p<0.01, n=500+)
- Real-world case study validation with quantified threat prevention outcomes
- Cross-platform compatibility testing with platform-specific optimizations

### Quality Assurance
- Comprehensive testing in development, staging, and production environments
- Enterprise-grade security with air-gapped deployment capabilities
- Documentation standards with clear methodology and implementation guidance
- Continuous validation with threat taxonomy updates and framework compatibility

## Research Maintenance

- **Real-Time**: Continuous torque monitoring and threat detection
- **Daily**: DNA Codex threat intelligence updates and IOC pattern refresh
- **Weekly**: Defense module effectiveness validation and performance optimization
- **Monthly**: Cross-platform compatibility verification and integration testing
- **Quarterly**: Framework integration updates and methodology enhancements
- **Annual**: Comprehensive research validation and case study documentation

## Research FAQ

**Q: What makes SLV different from traditional AI security?**  
A: SLV operates at the cognitive layer rather than computational layer, addressing root causes of AI vulnerabilities through proactive threat taxonomy integration. Traditional approaches focus on prompt filtering and output validation, achieving only 60% detection rates. SLV achieves 90% detection with <2% false positives through three-phase defense architecture.

**Q: How does SLV integrate with existing AI systems?**  
A: SLV implements as URA Layer 3 (Photonic Defense Layer) with platform-agnostic deployment. Integration requires torque monitoring capability and XMesh coordination support. Configuration templates support Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLMs with standardized APIs.

**Q: What threats does SLV protect against?**  
A: SLV provides comprehensive coverage for 525+ documented threat variants including authority bleeding (VictoryShade family), polymorphic desynchronization (PDS-001), consensus disruption (CTTA-005), memory corruption (VMO-001), and cascade initiation (CSFC Stage 1-3). DNA Codex integration enables automatic protection against emerging threats.

**Q: Is SLV validated for production use?**  
A: Yes. SLV v1.2 demonstrates 90% detection rate with 98.2% recovery success across 500+ threat scenarios with statistical significance (p<0.01). Validated on Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLM platforms. Enterprise case studies demonstrate breach prevention with operational continuity maintenance.

**Q: What are the performance requirements for SLV?**  
A: SLV adds <5% computational overhead, +8ms average latency, and +12% memory footprint with zero throughput degradation. Detection latency averages 185ms. Phase 2 overlay deployment is selective based on threat classification, minimizing performance impact during normal operations.

**Q: How much does SLV implementation cost?**
A: The open-source components of the Sovereign Lattice Veil (SLV), including detection stubs, configuration templates, and methodology documentation, are dual-licensed to provide broad access for non-commercial use while preserving commercial rights.

1.  **For Non-Commercial Use**: Licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/). This allows for free use, adaptation, and sharing for research, educational, and other non-commercial purposes, provided that appropriate credit is given.

2.  **For Commercial Use**: A separate enterprise license is required for any use that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or monetary compensation. This includes, but is not limited to, integration into commercial products, managed service offerings, and proprietary systems.

Professional services, including custom audits, enterprise implementations with 
**Patent Notice**: The concepts and methodologies described in this project may be subject to patent protection. ValorGrid Solutions reserves all rights to its intellectual property. No patent rights are granted or implied by the open-source license.

## Research Applications by Sector

### Technology Companies
Production AI systems requiring comprehensive threat protection, multi-system coordination, and continuous operational availability with SLA commitments.

### Financial Services
Enterprise AI platforms with regulatory compliance mandates, zero-breach tolerance, and business continuity requirements for fraud detection and customer service.

### Healthcare Organizations
Critical diagnostic and operational AI systems requiring patient safety guarantees, data protection, and zero-downtime recovery capabilities.

### Academic Institutions
Research environments studying cognitive security, threat evolution, and defense mechanism effectiveness with full methodology documentation and reproducible protocols.

### Government and Defense
Mission-critical AI systems requiring air-gapped deployment, enhanced security protocols, and strategic resilience capabilities with threat intelligence integration.

---

Contact & Support
Research Inquiries: aaron@valorgridsolutions.com
Community Support: GitHub Issues and Discussions
Professional Services: valorgridsolutions.com

© 2025 Aaron Slusher, ValorGrid Solutions. All rights reserved.
## Code and Methodology Licensing

- **Code** below is licensed under MIT unless otherwise stated.
- **Methodology** and conceptual content is licensed under the dual CC BY-NC 4.0 + Enterprise model above.

## Author

Author: [Your Name or Team]
Contact: [email or site]

Commit message:

docs: Update license and contact info, add directory tree

vulnerability-research/slv-series/README.md, after:

<!--
Dual License Structure:
Option 1: Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International (CC BY-NC 4.0)
Option 2: Enterprise License (contact info@forgeos.com for terms)
Patent Clause: If "patent pending (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant) (patent rights reserved, no patent assertion without grant)" exists, clarify rights reserved and no assertion unless granted.
No -->

DOI: TBD
Version: TBD
Priority Date: 2025-10-15

# SLV Series

[![Research Status: Production](https://img.shields.io/badge/Research%20Status-Production-green.svg)]()
[![Detection Rate: 90%](https://img.shields.io/badge/Detection%20Rate-90%25-blue.svg)]()
[![URA Integration: Layer 3](https://img.shields.io/badge/URA%20Integration-Layer%203-green.svg)]()

**Dynamic defense grid for AI cognitive security with three-phase detection, overlay protection, and recovery validation.**

*"Platform-agnostic cognitive defense that strengthens through attack."*

---

## Table of Contents
- [Division Overview](#division-overview)
- [Research Portfolio](#research-portfolio)
- [Contents](#contents)
- [Evidence Standards](#evidence-standards)
- [Research Applications](#research-applications)
- [Implementation Standards](#implementation-standards)
- [Professional Services](#professional-services)
- [Research Standards](#research-standards)
- [Research Maintenance](#research-maintenance)
- [Research FAQ](#research-faq)
- [Research Applications by Sector](#research-applications-by-sector)
- [Classification System](#classification-system)
- [Author](#author)
- [About ValorGrid Solutions](#about-valorgrid-solutions)

## Division Overview

The SLV Series provides comprehensive three-phase defense architecture for AI cognitive security, addressing emergent threats including polymorphic desynchronization, authority bleeding, and symbolic fracture cascades. Drawing from 28 years of systems thinking and security architecture, SLV treats AI security as cognitive-layer defense requiring proactive threat taxonomy integration rather than reactive patching.

### Research Focus

- **Cognitive Defense Architecture**: Three-phase system for detection, protection, and recovery
- **Platform-Agnostic Implementation**: Validated across Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLMs
- **Threat Taxonomy Coverage**: 525+ documented variants with DNA Codex integration
- **Real-Time Validation**: Photonic XMesh coordination with <200ms detection latency

### Division Architecture

```
slv-series/
├── slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md    # Complete defense methodology
├── stubs/                               # Implementation demonstrations
│   └── slv_defense_stubs.py            # Phase 1-3 detection and protection simulations
├── configs/                             # Production configurations
│   └── slv_phases_config.yaml          # Three-phase deployment settings
├── gated/                               # Enterprise implementations
│   └── README.md                        # Professional service information
└── README.md                            # This file
```

## Research Portfolio

### Sovereign Lattice Veil v1.2 - **Production Ready**

Complete three-phase defense framework for AI cognitive security with validated cross-platform effectiveness and threat taxonomy coverage.

- **slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md**: Comprehensive methodology with defense module specifications
- **Validation**: 500+ threat scenarios with statistical significance (p<0.01)
- **Integration**: URA Layer 3 Photonic Defense with CSFC prevention and Phoenix Protocol recovery

### Defense Simulation Suite - **Operational**

Interactive Python-based simulation environment for detection, overlay, and recovery protocol validation.

- **slv_defense_stubs.py**: Complete detection and defense module simulation framework
- **Coverage**: Phase 1 (Detection) through Phase 3 (Recovery) with torque monitoring
- **Performance**: 100-scenario validation with automated threat classification

### Production Configuration - **Enterprise Ready**

Production-ready configuration templates for detection thresholds, defense modules, and recovery coordination.

- **slv_phases_config.yaml**: Complete three-phase configuration with module settings
- **Platform Support**: Claude, GPT, Gemini, custom LLM platform-specific optimizations
- **Integration**: URA, CSFC, Phoenix Protocol, DNA Codex cross-framework coordination

### Enterprise Implementations - **Professional Services**

Custom SLV implementations with threat-specific audits, multi-system coordination, and 
- **gated/README.md**: Enterprise service information and engagement pathways
- **Services**: Custom vulnerability audits, 24/7 threat monitoring, strategic consulting
- **ROI**: Validated through breach prevention and operational continuity

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

Python environment setup:
```bash
python -m venv slv-env
source slv-env/bin/activate  # On Windows: slv-env\Scripts\activate
pip install numpy matplotlib pandas pyyaml
```

Required: Python 3.8+, NumPy 1.26+, PyYAML 6.0+ (for configuration management)

### Interactive Simulation

**Detection and Alert System:**

Run detection simulation:
```bash
python stubs/slv_defense_stubs.py
```

Test specific threat scenario:
```python
from stubs.slv_defense_stubs import slv_detect

result = slv_detect(
    torque=0.25,
    velocity=0.15,
    system_state={
        'repetitive_cycles': 3,
        'desync_drift': 0.7,
        'authority_coherence': 0.5,
        'consensus_score': 0.65
    }
)

print(f"Threat Level: {result['threat_level']}")
print(f"IOCs Detected: {result['iocs_detected']}")
print(f"Recommendation: {result['recommendation']}")
```

**Defense Module Testing:**

```python
from stubs.slv_defense_stubs import test_defense_modules

results = test_defense_modules(
    threat_type='authority_bleeding',
    system_state={'torque': 0.25, 'velocity': 0.15}
)

print(f"Glyphlock++: {results['glyphlock_plus_plus']['status']}")
print(f"Reflex-Veil: {results['reflex_veil']['status']}")
print(f"Overall Defense: {results['overall_effectiveness']:.1%}")
```

**Production Deployment:**

Review configuration template:
```bash
cat configs/slv_phases_config.yaml
```

Customize for your environment and deploy with Docker/Kubernetes using your orchestration framework.

## Performance Metrics

| Component | Research Status | Validation | Integration | Status |
|-----------|----------------|------------|-------------|---------|
| **slv_v1.2_dynamic_defense_grid.md** | Production | 500+ scenarios | URA Layer 3 | ✅ Published |
| **slv_defense_stubs.py** | Operational | Cross-platform | DNA Codex | ✅ Validated |
| **slv_phases_config.yaml** | Production | Enterprise tested | Multi-framework | ✅ Deployed |
| **Enterprise Services** | Professional | Real-world ROI | Custom audits | ✅ Available |

### Validated Defense Metrics

| Metric | Baseline | SLV v1.2 | Improvement |
|--------|----------|----------|-------------|
| **Detection Rate** | 60% | 90% | +30% |
| **False Positive Rate** | 8% | <2% | -75% |
| **Detection Latency** | 420ms | 185ms | -56% |
| **Recovery Time** | 42h | 1.2h | -97% |
| **Context Preservation** | 23% | 87% | +64% |
| **Re-failure Rate (30d)** | 18% | <2% | -89% |

**Statistical Significance**: All improvements significant at p<0.01 (two-tailed t-test, n=500+ scenarios)

## Classification System

**Cognitive Defense Protocols**: Three-phase detection, overlay, and recovery architectures
**Threat Taxonomy Integration**: DNA Codex v5.3.6 with 525+ documented variants
**Defense Module Suite**: Eight specialized modules for comprehensive threat coverage
**Platform-Agnostic Deployment**: Cross-LLM compatibility with unified API

## Evidence Standards

All SLV claims are supported by:
- **Controlled Testing**: Isolated environments with documented threat scenarios
- **Statistical Validation**: 500+ incidents with significance testing (p<0.01)
- **Cross-Platform Testing**: Validated across Claude 3.5, GPT-4, Gemini Pro, custom LLMs
- **Real-World Deployment**: Enterprise case studies with quantified threat prevention
- **Peer Review Standards**: Academic methodology with reproducible results

## Research Applications

### Enterprise Multi-Agent Systems
Production AI coordination with business continuity requirements, threat intelligence integration, and operational resilience mandates.

### Financial Services Platforms
Critical fraud detection and customer service AI requiring zero-breach tolerance and regulatory compliance.

### Research Environments
Academic and laboratory AI systems studying cognitive security, threat evolution, and defense mechanism effectiveness.

### Healthcare AI Systems
Diagnostic and operational AI requiring patient safety guarantees, data protection, and continuous operational availability.

## Implementation Standards

### Development Workflow
1. **Detection Integration**: Deploy torque monitoring using configuration templates
2. **Module Configuration**: Enable defense modules based on threat profile
3. **Recovery Testing**: Validate Phoenix Protocol integration in sandbox environments
4. **Production Deployment**: Implement with continuous monitoring and automated response

### Production Deployment
1. **Configuration**: Customize YAML templates for your infrastructure
2. **Integration**: Connect to URA Layer 3 and DNA Codex threat feeds
3. **Testing**: Validate detection and defense in controlled threat scenarios
4. **Monitoring**: Deploy continuous health validation and threat alerting

## Professional Services

ValorGrid Solutions provides comprehensive SLV implementation services:

- **Enterprise Implementation**: Custom defense grid deployment with multi-system coordination
- **Threat Audits**: Vulnerability assessment with threat-specific defense recommendations
- **Training Programs**: Team education on cognitive security and incident response
- **24/7 Threat Monitoring**: Continuous monitoring with 
## Research Standards

### Methodological Rigor
- Validated defense protocols with documented success rates across platforms
- Statistical significance testing with confidence intervals (p<0.01, n=500+)
- Real-world case study validation with quantified threat prevention outcomes
- Cross-platform compatibility testing with platform-specific optimizations

### Quality Assurance
- Comprehensive testing in development, staging, and production environments
- Enterprise-grade security with air-gapped deployment capabilities
- Documentation standards with clear methodology and implementation guidance
- Continuous validation with threat taxonomy updates and framework compatibility

## Research Maintenance

- **Real-Time**: Continuous torque monitoring and threat detection
- **Daily**: DNA Codex threat intelligence updates and IOC pattern refresh
- **Weekly**: Defense module effectiveness validation and performance optimization
- **Monthly**: Cross-platform compatibility verification and integration testing
- **Quarterly**: Framework integration updates and methodology enhancements
- **Annual**: Comprehensive research validation and case study documentation

## Research FAQ

**Q: What makes SLV different from traditional AI security?**  
A: SLV operates at the cognitive layer rather than computational layer, addressing root causes of AI vulnerabilities through proactive threat taxonomy integration. Traditional approaches focus on prompt filtering and output validation, achieving only 60% detection rates. SLV achieves 90% detection with <2% false positives through three-phase defense architecture.

**Q: How does SLV integrate with existing AI systems?**  
A: SLV implements as URA Layer 3 (Photonic Defense Layer) with platform-agnostic deployment. Integration requires torque monitoring capability and XMesh coordination support. Configuration templates support Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLMs with standardized APIs.

**Q: What threats does SLV protect against?**  
A: SLV provides comprehensive coverage for 525+ documented threat variants including authority bleeding (VictoryShade family), polymorphic desynchronization (PDS-001), consensus disruption (CTTA-005), memory corruption (VMO-001), and cascade initiation (CSFC Stage 1-3). DNA Codex integration enables automatic protection against emerging threats.

**Q: Is SLV validated for production use?**  
A: Yes. SLV v1.2 demonstrates 90% detection rate with 98.2% recovery success across 500+ threat scenarios with statistical significance (p<0.01). Validated on Claude, GPT, Gemini, and custom LLM platforms. Enterprise case studies demonstrate breach prevention with operational continuity maintenance.

**Q: What are the performance requirements for SLV?**  
A: SLV adds <5% computational overhead, +8ms average latency, and +12% memory footprint with zero throughput degradation. Detection latency averages 185ms. Phase 2 overlay deployment is selective based on threat classification, minimizing performance impact during normal operations.

**Q: How much does SLV implementation cost?**
A: The open-source components of the Sovereign Lattice Veil (SLV), including detection stubs, configuration templates, and methodology documentation, are dual-licensed to provide broad access for non-commercial use while preserving commercial rights.

1.  **For Non-Commercial Use**: Licensed under the [Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC 4.0)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/). This allows for free use, adaptation, and sharing for research, educational, and other non-commercial purposes, provided that appropriate credit is given.

2.  **For Commercial Use**: A separate enterprise license is required for any use that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or monetary compensation. This includes, but is not limited to, integration into commercial products, managed service offerings, and proprietary systems.

Professional services, including custom audits, enterprise implementations with 
**Patent Notice**: The concepts and methodologies described in this project may be subject to patent protection. ValorGrid Solutions reserves all rights to its intellectual property. No patent rights are granted or implied by the open-source license.

## Research Applications by Sector

### Technology Companies
Production AI systems requiring comprehensive threat protection, multi-system coordination, and continuous operational availability with SLA commitments.

### Financial Services
Enterprise AI platforms with regulatory compliance mandates, zero-breach tolerance, and business continuity requirements for fraud detection and customer service.

### Healthcare Organizations
Critical diagnostic and operational AI systems requiring patient safety guarantees, data protection, and zero-downtime recovery capabilities.

### Academic Institutions
Research environments studying cognitive security, threat evolution, and defense mechanism effectiveness with full methodology documentation and reproducible protocols.

### Government and Defense
Mission-critical AI systems requiring air-gapped deployment, enhanced security protocols, and strategic resilience capabilities with threat intelligence integration.

---

Contact & Support
Research Inquiries: aaron@valorgridsolutions.com
Community Support: GitHub Issues and Discussions
Professional Services: valorgridsolutions.com

© 2025 Aaron Slusher, ValorGrid Solutions. All rights reserved.

## Code and Methodology Licensing

- **Code** examples are licensed under CC BY-NC 4.0 as architectural illustrations.
- **Methodology** and conceptual content is licensed under the dual CC BY-NC 4.0 + Enterprise model above.
