open-source/obmi-harmony-memory/README.md, before:

# OBMI Harmonic Memory: Theoretical Framework

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Research](https://img.shields.io/badge/type-theoretical_research-green.svg)](https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public)

A conceptual implementation of bio-inspired harmonic memory theory for AI research, demonstrating Observer-Bridge-Mind Interface principles through theta-gamma coupling and fractal recall patterns.

## Overview

OBMI (Observer-Bridge-Mind Interface) Harmonic Memory represents a biomimetic approach to artificial intelligence memory architecture that transcends traditional storage-retrieval paradigms. This theoretical framework draws from cutting-edge neuroscience research on neural oscillations and memory consolidation.

## Core Components

### Harmonic Memory Core
- **File**: `harmonic_memory_core.py`
- **Purpose**: Base implementation of theta-gamma oscillation patterns
- **Features**: Self-organizing memory clusters, resonance-based recall

### Interactive Exploration
- **File**: `obmi_jupyter_notebook.json`
- **Purpose**: Hands-on experimentation with harmonic memory concepts
- **Usage**: Load in Jupyter Notebook for interactive demos

### Documentation
- **Theoretical Framework**: Complete academic foundation
- **Implementation Guide**: Technical specifications
- **Changelog**: Development history and evolution

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install numpy scipy matplotlib jupyter
```

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public.git

# Navigate to OBMI directory
cd forgeos-public/open-source/obmi-harmonic-memory

# Launch Jupyter notebook
jupyter notebook obmi_jupyter_notebook.json

# Or run the core module directly
python harmonic_memory_core.py
```

## Theoretical Foundation

The OBMI framework is built on several key principles:

1. **Harmonic Resonance**: Memory storage through synchronized oscillation patterns
2. **Fractal Organization**: Self-similar structures across temporal scales  
3. **Bridge Architecture**: Observer-Bridge-Mind interface for context threading
4. **Biomimetic Design**: Neural oscillation patterns inspire computational models

## Experimental Status

This implementation represents theoretical exploration of AI memory architecture. The concepts are provided for research and educational purposes. Production applications require thorough validation and testing.

## Attribution

Conceptual development benefited from collaborative discussions with ByteRover community contributions. See `CHANGELOG.md` for detailed acknowledgments.

## Project Structure

```
obmi-harmonic-memory/
├── core_modules/          # Core implementation modules
├── docs/                  # Technical documentation
├── examples/              # Usage demonstrations  
├── harmonic_memory_core.py # Main implementation
├── obmi_jupyter_notebook.json # Interactive exploration
└── README.md             # This file
```

## Contributing

Community contributions welcome through GitHub issues and pull requests. Please review the contribution guidelines in `Contributing to OBMI Harmonic Memory Theory.md`.

## Research Applications

- Memory persistence across AI sessions
- Context coherence in large language models
- Biomimetic neural network architectures
- Temporal pattern recognition systems

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For questions about implementation or theoretical concepts, please open an issue or refer to the documentation in the `docs/` directory.

---

*Part of the ForgeOS Research Initiative - Exploring the intersection of neuroscience and artificial intelligence through harmonic memory architectures.*

Commit message:

docs: update OBMI README with attribution and research applications

open-source/obmi-harmony-memory/README.md, after:

# OBMI Harmonic Memory: Theoretical Framework

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Python 3.8+](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.8+-blue.svg)](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
[![Research](https://img.shields.io/badge/type-theoretical_research-green.svg)](https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public)

A conceptual implementation of bio-inspired harmonic memory theory for AI research, demonstrating Observer-Bridge-Mind Interface principles through theta-gamma coupling and fractal recall patterns.

## Overview

OBMI (Observer-Bridge-Mind Interface) Harmonic Memory represents a biomimetic approach to artificial intelligence memory architecture that transcends traditional storage-retrieval paradigms. This theoretical framework draws from cutting-edge neuroscience research on neural oscillations and memory consolidation.

## Core Components

### Harmonic Memory Core
- **File**: `harmonic_memory_core.py`
- **Purpose**: Base implementation of theta-gamma oscillation patterns
- **Features**: Self-organizing memory clusters, resonance-based recall

### Interactive Exploration
- **File**: `obmi_jupyter_notebook.json`
- **Purpose**: Hands-on experimentation with harmonic memory concepts
- **Usage**: Load in Jupyter Notebook for interactive demos

### Documentation
- **Theoretical Framework**: Complete academic foundation
- **Implementation Guide**: Technical specifications
- **Changelog**: Development history and evolution

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install numpy scipy matplotlib jupyter
```

### Quick Start
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Feirbrand/forgeos-public.git

# Navigate to OBMI directory
cd forgeos-public/open-source/obmi-harmonic-memory

# Launch Jupyter notebook
jupyter notebook obmi_jupyter_notebook.json

# Or run the core module directly
python harmonic_memory_core.py
```

## Theoretical Foundation

The OBMI framework is built on several key principles:

1. **Harmonic Resonance**: Memory storage through synchronized oscillation patterns
2. **Fractal Organization**: Self-similar structures across temporal scales  
3. **Bridge Architecture**: Observer-Bridge-Mind interface for context threading
4. **Biomimetic Design**: Neural oscillation patterns inspire computational models

## Experimental Status

This implementation represents theoretical exploration of AI memory architecture. The concepts are provided for research and educational purposes. Production applications require thorough validation and testing.

## Attribution

## Attribution

Conceptual development benefited from collaborative discussions with ByteRover community contributions and exploration of integration possibilities with Cipher's MCP memory layer architecture. See `CHANGELOG.md` for detailed acknowledgments and theoretical enhancement discussions.

## Project Structure

```
obmi-harmonic-memory/
├── core_modules/          # Core implementation modules
├── docs/                  # Technical documentation
├── examples/              # Usage demonstrations  
├── harmonic_memory_core.py # Main implementation
├── obmi_jupyter_notebook.json # Interactive exploration
└── README.md             # This file
```

## Contributing

Community contributions welcome through GitHub issues and pull requests. Please review the contribution guidelines in `Contributing to OBMI Harmonic Memory Theory.md`.

## Research Applications

- Memory persistence across AI sessions
- Context coherence in large language models  
- Biomimetic neural network architectures
- Temporal pattern recognition systems
- MCP-compatible memory layers for AI coding environments
- Hierarchical context retention in IDE-integrated agents
- Non-linear semantic search for self-improving development tools

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details.

## Support

For questions about implementation or theoretical concepts, please open an issue or refer to the documentation in the `docs/` directory.

---

*Part of the ForgeOS Research Initiative - Exploring the intersection of neuroscience and artificial intelligence through harmonic memory architectures.*
